
In spite of the tradition that has reached our days, today we can affirm that Romulus - the founder of Rome - did not exist, and that the true foundation of Rome would be at the hands of Tarquinius Prisco at the beginning of the 6th century. The data extracted from Roman literature, assure suffocation in the middle of the eighth century by Romulus, but on the contrary, the archaeological data do not allow to speak of an urban birth before 625 or even 575 aCEl same case occurs at the time of dating the beginning of the Republic, 509 a. C. year that the tradition fixes as the beginning of the Republic, and 450 a.C. that, according to other historical data, would correspond better with the historical changes of a new epoch in Roman politics

Republic is called the period of the history of Rome characterized by the republican regime as a form of government, which extends from 510 BC, when the monarchy ended with the expulsion of the last king, Lucius Tarquino the Superb, until 27 BC, date on which the Empire began. Augusto established some public services during this period, the most important being the prefect of the city; night watchmen, firemen, to prevent fires and punish those who provoked them. Among other services. But all of them were of imperial property. The tradition locates the establishment of the Republic between the years 509-510 a.C. Thus begins another fundamental stage in the history of Rome that lasts two and a half centuries, in which Rome is preparing to dominate the Italic peninsula, then the Mediterranean to eventually dominate almost everyone in the Empire until then known.

 In substitution of the king, the group of citizens elected annually two magistrates, known as praetors (or military chiefs), who later received the title of consuls. The character of the Senate, already existing during the monarchy, was modified when the commoners entered it, known as conscripti (conscripts). In 494 BC, the secession (withdrawal) to the Aventine (one of the seven hills of Rome) of the plebeians, forced the patrician classes to grant the institution of the tribuni plebis (tribunes of the plebs) who were elected annually
) as representatives of the plebeians for the defense of their interests. These political changes gave way to a new aristocracy composed of patricians and plebeians enriched and propitiated that the entry into the Senate is almost a hereditary privilege of these families.